

. Write fortress propns
. Construct a real convergence statement

. experiments on influence of analogy on long-term persistence and
  transmission. (Have I already done some of these, in effect?)
  	[Well in the 7/2012 paper I had the perceived domains driving
	the origin domains (with some cross-domain effects as well).
	e.g. pegging the hunting propns raises the sky propns.
	Note though that these experiments had no restrictions on
	domain of discourse--i.e. propns were from all four domains.
	So I haven't done what's described below.  But I can do it by
	specifying converse-strucs in the make-person calls.]

  .. Compare two populations.  In both, only target propns are uttered.
     Maybe these are restricted to one domain.
     In one, there is a corresponding analog for the propns.
     In the other, there's not.
     What's the difference?

  .. Compare two populations.  In both, only target propns are
     uttered, from two domains.
     The pops differ as to which source analog they have.
     If this changes what fixes in the target domain, it shows
     the role of bg analogy, as opposed to innateness, in biasing
     tran.

  Now trying to do this in parenting18analogsAsBiases1.lisp.

. cross-analogy coherence demonstration/experiment:
  See parenting18coherence1.lisp, etc.
	Goal:

	Show that coherence due to background analogy can work against
	believing a propn that otherwise would be consistent with other beliefs.
	i.e. let salience or conversation emphasize s1-sn, those create emphasis
	on t1-tm due to analogy, and this fact makes it hard to disbelieve s(n+1),
	despite that otherwise that would work.

	Strategy:
	
	Give each individual all of the propns.
	
	Make most source propns in one domain (parenting or hunting) salient for
	one individual, either by making them directly perceived, or by making
	the perceived for others, and then letting conversation emphasize these
	propns.
	
	Make one proposition in the same domain disbelieved, either through
	direct perception or conversation, as before.
	
	Choose this last proposition so that:
	
	It has no or few positive links to propns in its own (source) domain.
	
	It maps to propns which do have significant positive links to others in
	the analog (target) domain.
	
	Show that activation flows from the emphasized source propns through the
	analogical connections to the target propns, and back to the chosen
	source propn.
	
	Show that this propn will not go as negative as it would otherwise, and
	maybe even can be maintained as positive.


. Let origin stories filter into society from one or two sources.
. Let effects of parent, or hunting, salience filter in from few sources.
. Let effects of both filter in from few sources.  See variation in
  pops wrt how patterns end up.
. Do the preceding iteratively to produce cumulative evolution.
. Here's something that would be nice with cumulative stuff:
  INTRODUCE IDEAS TOO EARLY, AND ALLOW THEM TO BE REJECTED BECAUSE
  THEY DON'T FIT--AND THEN MAYBE FORGOTTEN.  Later, when
  there is a context for them, let them become significant.
. Take stabilized pop and flip salience, or change salience in a few
  gradually, or drop saliences and make a small subset with opposite
  salience (as in parenting14k.nts).
. Question: Can conversation can create links that don't correspond
  to map nodes?  Or only that aren't reflected in the colored
  triangles.
